Update code to cloud related module learn pages (#3312)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: learn/guides/running-ballerina-programs-in-the-cloud/function-as-a-service-with-ballerina/aws-lambda.md

  - /learn/running-ballerina-programs-in-the-cloud/function-as-a-service-with-ballerina
---

## Prerequisites

> * Ballerina latest distribution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install the latest Ballerina distribution.
```

* Install the [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)

> * Go to [users](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#/users) and click add user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Go to [users](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#/users), and click **Add User**.
```

> * Enter username, enable programmatic access and make sure the user has AWSLambda_FullAccess or higher permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enter the username, enable programmatic access, and make sure the user has the `AWSLambda_FullAccess` or higher permissions.
```

> * Configure AWS CLI(https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html) using the access key and secret generated in the user creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure the AWS CLI(https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html) using the access key and secret generated in the user creation.
```

> * Go to [roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iamv2/home#/roles ) and create role that has AWSLambdaBasicExecutionRole or higher permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Go to [roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iamv2/home#/roles), and create a role that has the `AWSLambdaBasicExecutionRole` or higher permissions.
```

> * Go to the newly created role and copy the role arn to use when lambda function is being deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Go to the newly created role, and copy the role ARN to use when the Lambda function is being deployed.
```

## Supported Triggers

> AWS lambda function can be triggered by various AWS services. You can find the list of supported notification types below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An AWS Lambda function can be triggered by various AWS services. You can find the list of supported notification types below.
```

> - Direct invocation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Direct Invocation
```

- Simple Queue Service [SQS](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/)
- Simple Storage Service [S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)
- [DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/)
- Simple Email Service [SES](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/)
- [API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/)

## Writing a Function

The following Ballerina code gives an example on how to expose a simple echo function in AWS Lambda. 

```ballerina
import ballerina/log;
import ballerinax/awslambda;

@awslambda:Function
public function echo(awslambda:Context ctx, json input) returns json {
   log:printInfo(input.toJsonString());
   return input;
}
```

> Functions annotated as @awslambda:Function should always have the first parameter with the [awslambda:Context](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerinax/awslambda/latest/classes/Context) object contains the information and operations related to the current function execution in AWS Lambda such as the request ID and the remaining execution time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Functions annotated as `@awslambda:Function` should always have the first parameter with the [`awslambda:Context`](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerinax/awslambda/latest/classes/Context) object, which contains the information and operations related to the current function execution in AWS Lambda such as the request ID and the remaining execution time. 
```

> The second parameter with the `json` value contains the input request data. This input value format will vary depending on the source, which invoked the function (e.g., an AWS S3 bucket update event). The return type of the function is `json`. When the function is triggered by the event, the function body executes and it simply logs the input json and returns the json.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second parameter with the `json` value contains the input request data. This input value format will vary depending on the source, which invoked the function (e.g., an AWS S3 bucket update event). The return type of the function is `json`. When the function is triggered by the event, the function body executes and it simply logs the input JSON and returns the JSON.
```

## Deploying the Function

> Ballerina's AWS Lambda functionality is implemented as a custom AWS Lambda layer. As shown in the above instructions output, this information is provided when the function is created. The compiler generates the `aws-ballerina-lambda-functions.zip` file, which encapsulates all the AWS Lambda functions that are generated. This ZIP file can be used with the AWS web console, or the [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codedeploy/latest/userguide/getting-started-configure-cli.html) to deploy the functions. When you are deploying, make sure to replace the `$LAMBDA_ROLE_ARN` placeholder wit the role arn you copied in prerequisites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ballerina's AWS Lambda functionality is implemented as a custom AWS Lambda layer. As shown in the above instructions output, this information is provided when the function is created. The compiler generates the `aws-ballerina-lambda-functions.zip` file, which encapsulates all the AWS Lambda functions that are generated. This ZIP file can be used with the AWS web console or the [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codedeploy/latest/userguide/getting-started-configure-cli.html) to deploy the functions. When you are deploying, make sure to replace the `$LAMBDA_ROLE_ARN` placeholder with the role ARN you copied in the prerequisites.
```

> Execute the command below to deploy the echo function as an AWS Lambda is shown below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute the command below to deploy the echo function as an AWS Lambda as shown below. 
```

> >**Info:** Please visit [create-function documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/lambda/create-function.html) to see supported parameters. You might need to change parameters such as memory-size and timeout depending your application and connection speed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Info:**  For the supported parameters, go to the [`create-function` documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/lambda/create-function.html). You might need to change parameters such as the memory- size and timeout depending on your application and connection speed. 
```

>**Info:** The payload should be a valid JSON object.

```bash
$ echo '{"MESSAGE":"HELLO"}' > input.json
$ aws lambda invoke --function-name echo --payload fileb://input.json echo-response.txt
{
    "StatusCode": 200,
    "ExecutedVersion": "$LATEST"
}
```

Execute the command below to view the response in the `echo-response.txt` file.

```bash
$ cat echo-response.txt

{"MESSAGE":"HELLO"}
```

> If you want to check the logs of the execution, you have to go to `echo` lambda function in the portal then click on Monitor tab and Logs button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to check the logs of the execution, you have to go to the `echo` lambda function in the portal, and then click on the **Monitor** tab and **Logs** button.
```

## More Samples

### S3 Trigger

> In this sample we will be creating a function that will be executed for each object creation in AWS S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample creates a function, which will be executed for each object creation in AWS S3.
```

```ballerina
import ballerinax/awslambda;

@awslambda:Function
public function notifyS3(awslambda:Context ctx, 
                         awslambda:S3Event event) returns json {
                            io:println (event.Records[0].s3.'object.key);
    return event.Records[0].s3.'object.key;
}
```

> Now you can build and deploy the function as we did in previous sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can build and deploy the function as in the previous sample.
```

> In order for us to invoke this function, we need to create a s3 bucket in AWS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to invoke this function, create an S3 bucket in AWS.
```

> 1. Go to [AWS S3 Page](https://s3.console.aws.amazon.com/s3/) in the portal and create a bucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to [AWS S3](https://s3.console.aws.amazon.com/s3/), in the portal and create a bucket.
```

> 2. Click on the created bucket and go to Properties tab and click on Create event notification under Event notifications section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on the created bucket, go to the **Properties** tab, and click on the **Create event** notification under the **Event notifications** section.
```

> 3. Enable `All object create events under` event types. Select Lambda function as the destination and choose the notifyS3 lambda function from the dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enable `All object create events under` event types. Select the Lambda function as the destination, and choose the `notifyS3` Lambda function from the dropdown.
```

> Now we can click on `Upload` to upload a object to the s3 bucket and view the lambda logs via cloudwatch to see the object name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, click **Upload** to upload an object to the S3 bucket, and view the Lambda logs via CloudWatch to see the object name.
```
Shall we add these steps as numbered bullet points?

### DynamoDB Trigger

> In this sample we will be created a function that will be executed for each entry added to a database in the DynamoDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample creates a function, which will be executed for each entry added to a database in the DynamoDB.
```

```ballerina
import ballerinax/awslambda;

@awslambda:Function
public function notifyDynamoDB(awslambda:Context ctx, 
                               awslambda:DynamoDBEvent event) returns json {
                                  io:println (event.Records[0].dynamodb.Keys.toString());
    return event.Records[0].dynamodb.Keys.toString();
}
```

> Now you can build and deploy the function as we did in previous sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can build and deploy the function as in the previous sample.
```

> In order for us to invoke this function, we need to create a dynamodb table first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to invoke this function, create a DynamoDB table.
```
Can't we have this as the step 1 in the list below?

> 1. Go to [roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iamv2/home#/roles ) and add `AWSLambdaDynamoDBExecutionRole` to the created role in the prerequisites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to [roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iamv2/home#/roles), and add `AWSLambdaDynamoDBExecutionRole` to the created role in the prerequisites.
```

> 2. Go to [DynamoDB](https://us-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/dynamodbv2) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to the [DynamoDB](https://us-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/dynamodbv2).
```

3. Click on Create Table and enter the table name, partition key and create the table. If you already have a table you can skip this step.

> 4. Click on the dynamodb table and go exports and streams tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click on the DynamoDB table, and then click the **Exports and streams** tab.
```
Please double-check this step. What is `go exports`?

> 5. Click on enable DynamoDB stream details and select Key attributes only for the event type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click **enable DynamoDB stream details**, and select the key attributes only for the event type.
```
Make sure to have the font of all UI elements in bold. Please check all ossurrences.

> 6. Once its enabled, Click on Create a trigger, select the `notifyDynamoDB` from the dropdown and create trigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Once it's enabled, click **Create a trigger**, select the `notifyDynamoDB` from the dropdown, and create a trigger.
```

> Now we can add an entry to dynamodb table to invoke our lambda function. We can go to [Items](https://us-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/dynamodbv2) in dynamodb, select the table and click Create item. Once the item is entered in to the table you can go to the lambda function and check logs via cloudwatch to see the object identifier in the logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, add an entry to the DynamoDB table to invoke the Lambda function. For this, go to [Items](https://us-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/dynamodbv2) in the DynamoDB, select the table, and click **Create item**. Once the item is entered into the table, go to the Lambda function, and check the logs via CloudWatch to see the object identifier in the logs.
```
